My question is -- Can we predict the citation count of a paper published in a peer-reviewed journal using the information given only in the abstract of the paper? This question is interesting because it can help to identify how impactful a paper is likely to be in a given amount of time. This metric can be useful for high-impact journals when they are deciding whether a paper is appropriate for being published their journal or not. However, I would use this metric with caution and only as a weak indicator because it is far from being accurate enough to be used to make important publishing decisions. In addition to this, this metric is derived from the data collected in the past and is not necessarily an indicator of the direction in which a particular field might be going in the future. It would be more appropriate as an identifier for an author of a paper as it can help them gauge the perceived impact of their own paper as well gain some info about the kinds of topics that are being widely-studied in a field.

I have chosen to look at papers from a specific topic -- Quantum computing, published in the years 2009-2010. My model does not depend on these choices and can be used for any topic and year(s), provided that the data is available on the ADS server.

I have spent most of my time in defining features and feature selection/extraction. As my features are words from the abstract, I have cleaned the raw data by removing unimportant words/symbols and converted words into a common form so that a single word appearing in different forms (noun, adjective, adverb, verb, etc.) is counted as the same word instead of different words by the classifier. I have also spent some time training different classifiers and figuring out which one is best-suited for achieving the goals of this project. However, for the sake of brevity and clear presentation, I will present the results from just one classifier here.
